#### 2.2-1 Express the function $n^3=1000 - 100n^2 - 100n + 3$ in terms of $\Theta$-notation.

$\Theta(n^3)$

#### 2.2-2
Consider sorting $n$ numbers stored in array $A$ by first finding the smallest element of $A$ and exchanging it with the element in $A[1]$. Then find the second smallest element of $A$, and exchange it with $A[2]$. Continue in this manner for the first $n-1$ elements of $A$. Write pseudocode for this algorithm, which is known as ***selection sort***. What loop invariant does this algorithm maintain? Why does it need to run for only the first $n-1$, rather than for all $n$ elements? Give the best-case and worst-case running times of selection sort in $\Theta$-notation.

Input: An array $A=\langle a_1,a_2,...,a_n\rangle$

**Output**: A permutation $\langle a_1^{'}, a_2^{'}, ..., a_n^{'}\rangle$ of the input sequence such that $a_1^{'} \leq a_2^{'} \leq ... \leq a_n^{'}$

    for j = 1 to A.length - 1
        min = j
        for i = j + 1 to A.length
            if A[i] <= A[min]
                min = i
        tmp = A[min]
        A[min] = A[j]
        A[j] = tmp
      
**Loop invariant**: At the start of the iteration of the for loop, the subarray $A[1..j-1]$ consists of the $j-1$ smallest elements of $A$, in sorted order.

The loop invariant remains true at the start, as only $A[1]$ is in the subarray, and it is sorted. It's maintained throughout, as the inner loop does not affect the subarray $A[1..j-1]$. When the loop terminates (right before the next loop), the $j^{th}$ element is swapped with the smallest element found in $A[j+1..n]$, now the subarray $A[1..j]$ contains the smallest elements of $A$ in sorted order. This is also true for $A[1..j-1]$, since $A[1..j-1]\subseteq A[1..j]$

| Line | $\textsf{SELECTION-SORT}$ | cost  | times                     |
| ---: | ------------------------- | :---: | :------------------------ |
|    1 | for j = 1 to A.length - 1 | $c_1$ | $n - 1$                   |
|    2 | min = j                   | $c_2$ | $n-2$                     |
|    3 | for i = j + 1 to A.length | $c_3$ | $\sum_{j=1}^{n-1}t_j$     |
|    4 | if A[i] <= A[min]         | $c_4$ | $\sum_{j=1}^{n-1}(t_j-1)$ |
|    5 | min = i                   | $c_5$ | $\sum_{j=1}^{n-1}(t_j-1)$ |
|    6 | tmp = A[min]              | $c_6$ | $n-2$                     |
|    7 | A[min] = A[j]             | $c_7$ | $n-2$                     |
|    8 | A[j] = tmp                | $c_8$ | $n-2$                     |

$T(n)=$

$c_1(n-1)+c_2(n-2)+c_3\sum_{j=1}^{n-1}t_j+c_4\sum_{j=1}^{n-1}(t_j-1)+c_5\sum_{j=1}^{n-1}(t_j-1)+c_6(n-2)+c_7(n-2)+c_8(n-2)$

$c_1(n-1)+c_2(n-2)+c_3\Big(\frac{1}{2}(n-1)(n)\Big)+c_4\Big(\frac{1}{2}(n-1)(n)-1\Big)+c_5\Big(\frac{1}{2}(n-1)(n)-1\Big)+c_6(n-2)+c_7(n-2)+c_8(n-2)$

$c_1(n-1)+c_2(n-2)+c_3\frac{1}{2}(n-1)(n)+c_4\frac{1}{2}(n-1)(n)-c_4+c_5\frac{1}{2}(n-1)(n)-c_5+c_6(n-2)+c_7(n-2)+c_8(n-2)$

$c_1n-c_1+c_2n-2c_2+c_3\frac{n^2}{2} - c_3\frac{n}{2}+c_4\frac{n^2}{2}-c4\frac{n}{2}-c_4+c_5\frac{n^2}{2}-c_5\frac{n}{2}-c_5+c_6n-2c_6)+c_7n-2c_7+c_8n-2c_8$

$\Big(\frac{c_3}{2}+\frac{c_4}{2}+\frac{c_5}{2}\Big)n^2+\Big(c_1+c_2-\frac{c_3}{2}-\frac{c_4}{2}-\frac{c_5}{2}+c_6+c_7+c_8\Big)n - (c_1 + 2c_2 +c_4 +c_5+2c_6+2c_7+2c_8)$

Best case running time is a linear function of n, so $\Theta(n)$; worst case would be the fully unsorted array(sorted in descending order), where it would perform both loops in full every time, this would be $\Theta(n^2)$

It only needs to run $n-1$ times (as opposed to $n$ times) because after $n-1$ replacements, we are confident that the $n^{th}$ element is the biggest one of the array (see loop invariant explanation).

#### 2.2-3 Consider linear search again (see Exercise 2.1-3). How many elements of the input sequence need to be checked on the average, assuming that the element being searched for is equally likely to be any element in the array? How about in the worst case? What are the average-case and worst-case running times of linear search in ‚-notation? Justify your answers.
####2.2-4 How can we modify almost any algorithm to have a good best-case running time?