#### 1.1-1 Give a real-world example that requires sorting or a real-world example that requires computing a convex hull.

Ordering contacts in a company's address book, with potentially hundred of thousands of entries.

#### 1.1-2 Other than speed, what other measures of efficiency might one use in a real-world setting?

Concurrency, for one. Some algorithms need to remain efficient, while working on shared data pools, i.e. they cannot block access to the dataset as they work.

#### 1.1-3 Select a data structure that you have seen previously, and discuss its strengths and limitations.

Arrays are extremely powerful and common, although they have a fixed size and memory allocation.

#### 1.1-4 How are the shortest-path and traveling-salesman problems given above similar? How are they different?

They are similar in that they both are about reducing distance travel, meeting certain criteria.

They are different in the fact that the traveling salesman needs to return to the central depot or hub after each trip, the shortest path is a one-way trip.

#### 1.1-5 Come up with a real-world problem in which only the best solution will do. Then come up with one in which a solution that is “approximately” the best is good enough.

Best solution: finding "airways" for plane routes. Air-time for planes is limited (as it's a factor of fuel), and the pathways near busy airports are critical (as airplane collision would prove fatal for all involved).

Approximately best: Finding pathways for ground vehicles, with maybe the exception of emergency vehicles (ambulances, firetrucks, etc.), fuel is generally not a pressing factor, so rerouting ground vehicles has more tolerable consequences.